1 Showcase

 A)​ Video Interview (assignment 2)
      a)​ What is it
                 It is a mock virtual interview where you are given a question and you
         record your answer on the platform and submit it. This is all done without any
         external human input and only requires the interviewee to record themselves
         when they are free before the deadline. Each question usually has a minute
         or 2 thinking time and then a few minutes to actually record your video.


      b)​ Explain why you selected this piece for your showcase?
                  This is different from most other assignments and traditional forms of
         communication. Usually we are talking to a person or text/emailing them
         mainly on a one on one basis. You know who you are talking with. This is very
         different as you can’t see who is actually looking at your video. This is very
         disjointed and hence a unique experience in the new digital world. So due to
         this I choose to include this piece for my showcase.


      c)​ What does this piece say about your development as a
          communicator?
         ​        Majority of my experience has been talking to people directly but
         never in this way. This is really weird as you have no human response to go
         off of or anything. This may be similar to making an youtube video or
         presenting on TV which may be useful in the future when making project
         submission videos as well. I am really camera shy and find it difficult to talk to
         the camera like that and this definitely gave me a new experience.


      d)​ Did this piece push you out of your comfort zone?
         I am not used to talking to a camera and am very camera shy. This was
         definitely way out of my comfort zone.


      e)​ Is this piece your best work? Why or why not?
         I don’t have much experience with this and considering I have a camera
         shyness, it was the best I could do at that moment of time. I am not sure if I
         am any better but it would help getting more practice in this.



 B)​ Term Project 1
      a)​ What is it
         A scientific research report on sustainable transportation.
    b)​ Explain why you selected this piece for your showcase?
               This is different from the usual essays and is a full on technical report
       which would be my first time writing one and hence I am showing it. We also
       had to do peer reviews which means we had to give advice to other people on
       their reports while making sure it's actually useful


    c)​ What does this piece say about your development as a
        communicator?
               Well now I am more used to writing a technical report with proper
       citations compared to short paragraphs before. Also I had to make sure all the
       points were understandable and all the paragraphs make sense together
       which you don’t have to worry about as much in shorter pieces of writing.


    d)​ Did this piece push you out of your comfort zone?
       ​      Mostly not as it's similar to writing smaller paragraphs. The main hard
       part was making sure everything is backed up with evidence and making sure
       the overall paragraphs make sense.


    e)​ Is this piece your best work? Why or why not?
       ​         In the time I had I can say it is the best. I spent the last day or 2 before
       it was due actually doing the assignment. If I started earlier I could have made
       it a lot better but then I couldn’t have spent time on my other classes.


C)​ Group Assignment 5
    a)​ What is it
       ​       We had to make a presentation based on our technical report (from
       part B in this case)


    b)​ Explain why you selected this piece for your showcase?
       ​       This was the first and only major group work we had and not only a
       quick tutorial activity. This makes it an actual communication assignment.


    c)​ What does this piece say about your development as a
        communicator?
       ​      It was a breeze working with my team, which means my
       communication is at a point where I can efficiently work with a random team
       of people I don’t know.


    d)​ Did this piece push you out of your comfort zone?
       ​      Communicating with the team was not hard. Again we had to record
       ourselves speaking to the camera and submit that video. We choose to do it
        on our own time and put together the video. This was out of my comfort zone
        as I am not used to talking to a camera without any human like in the
        interview assignment.


     e)​ Is this piece your best work? Why or why not?
        ​       The slides were really good and the presentation was also decent. I
        had to extend my section so I had to speak slower than usual which made it
        really difficult for me as it was a lot slower than I am used to making me think
        more and losing track often for which I needed to do multiple retakes. If I had
        more time to practice and do more retakes then it would have been a lot
        better but for the time I had, it was really good.


D)​ Cosmik Ai.
     a)​ What is it
               An Ai exoplanet detector being developed for citizen science
        applications to quickly find exoplanets in stars.


     b)​ Explain why you selected this piece for your showcase?
        ​        This is the largest project I have done to date, this started as a
        hackathon project and turned into a many month project. We worked with a
        professor and were a team of students who came up with this. This included
        finding and talking to professors who would work with us and also make time
        for it alongside our busy classes.


     c)​ What does this piece say about your development as a
         communicator?
        ​       I was usually scared to approach new people, especially professors.
        This forced me to talk to a few and find one who is interested in our work. We
        also partnered with a capstone team and had to talk with them. I had to make
        sure my teammates understood the technical requirements of their tasks and
        were on the same page.


     d)​ Did this piece push you out of your comfort zone?
        ​       Yes this did push me out of my comfort zone the most. I had to find
        and talk with a few professors which I was not used to doing and was also
        afraid of doing. I also got used to talking to professors normally as I had to
        email the professor often with questions, updates and so on. I also had to
        work with the capstone team which were people I didn’t know but got to know
        them better. I also managed my team, telling them their tasks and making
        sure they delivered on time. This is the most hands-on I have been for a
        project and gave me valuable insight.
           e)​ Is this piece your best work? Why or why not?
               ​       This is not fully complete as the Ai model requires more training. This
               is a long term project but I have a current MVP up on my github. This is for
               the time being my best work. I am not sure how I can improve it further other
               than updating the Ai model. This takes time and is also not my field as I am
               more of the backend integrator than the Ai developer.


2 Reflection

Part 1: ENG2003 Experience
​        ENG2003 was different from other courses I have done as it was less technical and
more on communication and relied on your English skills. I would say some activities were
fun, especially the Kahoots while others felt like a chore and a waste of time. Most tutorials
were not bad, the TA was really nice and talking to people and working on the activity was
decently fun for most of the time. I found the term project 1, the technical report, to be a
good project where we got the chance to research anything and make a report about it. It
was fun researching about a topic you are really passionate about and making a report to
help others see your passion and the information you are trying to convey. The group
assignment where we had to present one of our reports was also quick and enjoyable.
Working with a team of random people is not so difficult most of the time. One of the
members was being a bit difficult but we resolved it and made, what I would say is a really
good looking presentation. On the other side there were activities like the cover letter or
some of the tutorial activities which seemed like a drag compared to the other activities and
would say they could have been done better. The lecture activities are not so bad, I found a
group near the beginning and stuck with them throughout the semester. So, working with my
group for the inclass activities was really easy and enjoyable. The best part of the course
was definitely the Kahoots, I learnt a lot from them as it was easy to retain important
information through activities. Compared to lectures where it gets boring really fast and you
start to zone out and miss all the information, these kahoot sessions were definitely a breath
of fresh air. This course was a bit different from what I was expecting as I expected a dull
lecture and many boring, and not so useful essay writings. This course had some aspects of
what I had dreaded but overall it was still better than I expected and is really useful for
people who cannot communicate, though the amount of such people may be really low. I
would say the technical report, term project 1, was the most useful as I had never written a
technical report before. THis gave me the experience of writing one and I learned a lot about
writing a report and how to properly cite sources using IEEE from this. Otherwise, the other
assignments were more or the same to what I have experienced before and would not say
they truly changed something, for me at least. Overall I would say the experience was okay
but did not stand out in any way. After completing the course I am not sure how much I
would have really missed out on if I did not do the course.
Part 2: ENG2003 Reflection
​        I would say even before ENG2003, I had a strong basis for communication already.
After the course, I don’t think I have really changed much in any sense. Most of the skills like
working with others and writing essays/ paragraphs are mostly what I have been doing most
of my life. If I were to miss out on this course then I would not really lose much, if anything.
The 7Cs and the axioms of communications seemed like a beneficial thing but the more I
thought about it, the more I came to the conclusion of why do we need it? Most of the points
discussed were already common knowledge. Also when you go to “communicate”, you don’t
think about the 7Cs. You go with what seems the best and usually it is good enough for the
task. Making communication about strict rules removes nuance and abilities people would
have learnt from just communicating. This is useful for someone new to english or someone
who is introverted with little communication experience. Coming from my background with
ample experience I would say nothing truly improved under this course. The only skill I would
say I am lacking is talking to a camera like the virtual interview. Though I am not sure how
useful this skill is as most often you will be talking to a human and this seems close to
dystopian more than anything. I also have a habit of rambling on and being less concise but I
don’t think every piece of writing needs to be super concise. If all writing was concise then
there would be no humanity in them, might as well use Ai to talk to each other. On top of
that, I can be concise accordingly like in my technical report or quick communications
between people. I already have a strong basis for technical communications coming from
many hackathons or working with professors. I also have pitching and public speaking
experience to draw from when it comes to tailoring the information for the crowd. So, in that
sense I wouldn’t say anything changed when it comes to approaching other courses
differently. Most likely I will forget the 7Cs or the axioms but still remember the overall idea of
how to communicate from the experience I have had.


Portfolio

Cosmikai Photography Server Administration LES Benny
Travelling and Eating
